docs: Multi-port support for v1.17 GA (#19401)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/multiport/reference/grpcroute.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: GRPCRoute resource configuration reference
description: The GRPCRoute resource CRD configures L7 GRPC traffic behavior within the service mesh. GRPCRoute is a GAMMA resource that requires the v2 catalog API. Learn how to configure the GRPCRoute CRD with specifications and example configurations.
---

# GRPCRoute resource configuration reference

This page provides reference information for the GRPCRoute resource, which defines L7 GRPC traffic within the service mesh.

> This custom resource definition (CRD) describes a GAMMA resource that requires the [v2 catalog API](/consul/docs/architecture/catalog/v2). It is not compatible with the [v1 catalog API](/consul/docs/architecture/catalog/v1). For more information about GAMMA resources, refer to the [Kubernetes Gateway API documentation](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/gamma/).

Reviewer: Yes we should say 

"This custom resource definition (CRD) describes a resource closely related to a GAMMA resource" instead

    - [`retries`](#spec-rules-retries): map
      - [`number`](#spec-rules-retries-number): map
        - [`value`](#spec-rules-retries-number): integer
      - [`onConditions`](#spec-rules-retries-onconditions): map of strings
      - [`onConnectFailure`](#spec-rules-retries-onconnectfailure): boolean | `false`
      - [`onStatusCodes`](#spec-rules-retries-onconditions): map of integers
    - [`timeouts`](#spec-rules-timeouts): map
      - [`idle`](#spec-rules-timeouts-idle): map
        - [`nanos`](#spec-rules-timeouts-idle): integer
        - [`seconds`](#spec-rules-timeouts-idle): integer
      - [`request`](#spec-rules-timeouts-request): map
        - [`nanos`](#spec-rules-timeouts-request): integer
        - [`seconds`](#spec-rules-timeouts-request): integer

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Complete configuration

When every field is defined, a GRPCRoute resource CRD has the following form:

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="YAML" group="yaml">

```yaml
apiVersion: mesh.consul.hashicorp.com/v2beta1        # required 
kind: GRPCRoute                                      # required
metadata:
  name: <CRDName>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
  parentRefs:

>     port: "<portNameRoutedFrom>"

Reviewer: I would remove quotes as it's confusing. Perhaps use # for comments to describe replace with your port.

| `remove` | Defines a list of headers to remove. Consul removes only headers containing exact matches. Header names are not case-sensitive. | list of strings |

### `spec.rules.filters.urlRewrite`

Specifies a path to modify the URL with when a request matching [`spec.parentRefs`](#spec-parent-refs) is forwarded.

#### Values

- Default: None
- Data type: Map containing the following parameter:

  | Parameter     | Description                                                                                        | Data type | Default |
  | :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
  | `pathPrefix` | Specifies a path to prepend to the URL when a request matching [`spec.parentRefs`](#spec-parent-refs) is forwarded.  | String    | None    |

### `spec.rules.matches`

> Specifies rules for matching services described in [`spec.parentRefs`](#spec-parent-refs) according to the request header or method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies rules for matching traffic to services described in [`spec.parentRefs`](#spec-parent-refs) according to the request header or method.
```

  | :-------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
  | `nanos`   | Specifies the number of nanoseconds before triggering a timeout. | Integer   | None    |
  | `seconds` | Specifies the number of seconds before triggering a timeout.     | Integer   | None    |

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate common GRPCRoute CRD configuration patterns for specific use cases.

### Split gRPC traffic between two ports

The following example splits traffic for the `api` service. GRPC traffic for services registered to the Consul catalog that are available at the `api-workload` port is split so that 50% of the traffic routes to the service at the `api-workload` port and 50% routes to the service at the `admin-workload` port.

```yaml
apiVersion: mesh.consul.hashicorp.com/v2beta1
kind: GRPCRoute
metadata:
  name: api-split
  namespace: default
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - ref:
        type: 
          group: catalog
          groupVersion: v2beta1
          kind: Service
        name: api
      # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,

>       # not the service port. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      # not the service port. In a future release, this will be the service port name.
```
We might want to update similar comments with this text.

      port: "api-workload"
  rules:
    - backendRefs:
      - backendRef:
          ref: 
            type:
              group: catalog
              groupVersion: v2beta1
              kind: Service
            name: api
          # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,
          # not the service port.
          port: "api-workload"
        weight: 50
      - backendRef:
          ref: 
            type:
              group: catalog
              groupVersion: v2beta1
              kind: Service
            name: api

>           # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,
>           # not the service port. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          # The configuration targets the workload port,
          # not the service port. 
```

          port: "admin-workload"
        weight: 50
```

### Route traffic by matching header

The following examples routes gRPC traffic for the `api` service according to its header GRPC traffic for services registered to the Consul catalog that are available at the `api-workload` port are routed according to the following criteria:

> - Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `1` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the service with the `api` workload identity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `1` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the `api` service at the `api-workload` port.
```

> - Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `1` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the service with the `api` workload identity.
> - Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `2` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the service with the `api-admin` workload identity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `1`, Consul modifies the response and request headers and routes to the service with the `api` workload identity.
- For traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `2`, Consul modifies the response and request headers modified and routes to the service with the `api-admin` workload identity.
```

> - Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `2` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the service with the `api-admin` workload identity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Traffic with a header that contains a `x-debug` value of exactly `2` has their response and request headers modified and is routed to the `api-admin` service at the `admin-workload` port.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This example also includes how to include filters that modify request or response headers.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: mesh.consul.hashicorp.com/v2beta1
kind: GRPCRoute
metadata:
  name: api-match-split
  namespace: default
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - ref:
        type: 
          group: catalog
          groupVersion: v2beta1
          kind: Service
        name: api

>       # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,
>       # not the service port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      # The configuration targets the workload port,
      # not the service port.
```

      port: "api-workload"
  rules:
    - matches:
      - headers:
          - type: "HEADER_MATCH_TYPE_EXACT"
            name: "x-debug"
            value: "1"
      filters:
       - requestHeaderModifier:
           add:
           - name: "request-foo"
             value: "request-bar"
       - responseHeaderModifier:
           add:
           - name: "response-foo"
             value: "response-bar"
      backendRefs:
      - backendRef:
          ref:
            type:
              group: catalog
              groupVersion: v2beta1
              kind: Service
            name: api

>           # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,
>           # not the service port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          # The configuration targets the workload port,
          # not the service port.
```

          port: "api-workload"
    - matches:
      - headers:
          - type: "HEADER_MATCH_TYPE_EXACT"
            name: "x-debug"
            value: "2"
      filters:
       - requestHeaderModifier:
           add:
           - name: "request-foo"
             value: "request-bar"
       - responseHeaderModifier:
           add:
           - name: "response-foo"
             value: "response-bar"
      backendRefs:
      - backendRef:
          ref:
            type:
              group: catalog
              groupVersion: v2beta1
              kind: Service
            name: api-admin

>           # Note that right now, we must target the workload port,
>           # not the service port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          # The configuration targets the workload port,
          # not the service port.
```
